The Joe Rogan experience.
Inflammation is a, the big difference is when I eat a lot of carbs,
if I go off the rails and I'll cheat and have pasta or bread or something like
that, I experienced more inflammation. I experienced more soreness in my joints.
I've um, you get more fatigue, you get tired,
you get that insulin crash. You get all those big factors that I don't.
I just don't get. When I eat clean,
when I eat just meat and salad and vegetables and high
fat diet and low carb, my body is just way more efficient and just, it,
it feels better.
And the big thing that I keep trying to stress to people is you don't need a nap
that afternoon nap, which I just thought is something you need.
All that is is just your body recovering from lunch, from carbs. Yeah. Your,
your carbs at lunch. If you don't have that, the day is much more efficient.
I get more done. I have more energy, you know, it's like when people say,
how do you do like all these podcasts, two podcasts a day? Like, no, I eat good,
eat good. And it's not hard. It's not hard.
Your brain is functioning all day long. But man,
if I stopped at noon and had a pizza and then tried to do a
podcast, I'd be here like going, oh, is this done yet? I need to sleep.
You just get tired. Yeah.
You get exhausted. We've been doing this diet since the mid nineties,
since like 1993. I think it was around the time we kind of started.
We've been doing them on and off for a long time.
And more recently I used it to drop 70 pounds. But I think one of the,
one of the things with keto that I noticed was it almost doesn't really matter
that, I mean ketosis all the time. I think the effort to be in ketosis,
I think is important, uh,
by getting rid of a lot of the carbohydrates that you have the effort to kind of
eat a little bit more fat.
But what I've noticed is I don't think I need to really go out of my way to eat
tons and tons of fat.
I don't need to be dumping tons of MCT oil on stuff I don't need to, uh,
or there's enough fat. Usually in the stakes that I'm eating.
A lot of times I'll get ribeye. Um, sometimes I'll eat bacon, eggs,
things like that. I put up on my Instagram the other day,
about seven or eight foods that I thought,
if you just stuck to these seven or eight foods for a handful of days,
you would lose a lot of weight. And the response was amazing.
People were writing back and they're like, holy, man, I'd lost 10 pounds.
Well, a lot of people do lose weight off of keto. There's no doubt about that.
But even mark Sisson, who was one that got me into it,
mark goes on and off.
And he thinks that there's some benefit to going on and off key. I don't.
Think he has to be in ketosis, ketogenic.
Diet. Yeah. But even when you go off,
you're not switching your diet to spaghetti. You know, you're not eating,
you know, wonder bread or like that. Like I'd love.
It. If you switched up spaghetti, right? That's your thing, pasta. Well.
I like it. I like it when I cheat,
but I don't like the effect on my body for sure. I just like the taste of it,
like linguine with clams is one of my favorite things to eat.
But the way I feel afterwards, it's not my favorite.
Butter. Why is that so wonderful. Why is that so good.
So good people are out in California. They don't even know.
We always talk about this hard rolls.
Used to go get like a butter roll in the morning.
And we grew up in New York. So you should get a buttered roll with butter. Yeah.
It was the best thing ever. Yeah. And out here they don't have them. Thank God.
I'm actually glad that I'm out here.
Love sour dough, bread with grass fed butter and honey.
Oh my God, man. Sourdough sourdough.
Is really good. What honey? On top of the butter. Oh Jesus.
Oh, with all this ketogenic sounds amazing with all this Cheeto stuff going on.
I've been wondering when somebody is going to make some bread,
like figure it out.
It's not that bad. No foods is good. I like their bread.
I make egg sandwiches with their friends.
I w I haven't tried that one yet. A lot of good stuff.
I know they just came out. I tried the waffles.
I tried the good that donuts and stuff like that.
But I think a lot of those things for me,
they have way too many carbohydrates for me, you know, way too many.
Isn't there something about the type of carbs they have an unusual host.
They don't raise your blood level bludge some level. Yeah. Well, I, you know,
I don't want to eat regular waffles on a regular basis,
but if I'm going to cheat and I eat what they have, you know,
and they also have a very low sugar syrup too,
that tastes very good with some butter. It's just, it's the best option.
If you're going to do something like that. Exactly.
You should mostly eat real foods.
Like I feel better when I eat meat and vegetables. That's when I've, when I'm,
you know,
I had Jordan Peterson on and he had some pretty serious auto-immune disorders
and his body was really in trouble.
And his daughter had similar problems and his daughter went to essentially a
diet of just meat and greens.
And now I think she's on a carnivore diet and she's got a Instagram page to
documenting it,
but he went to meat and greens lost a ton of weight. What was losing?
I think he said he was losing, what did he say?
Like seven pounds a month for something like something along those lines lost a
ton of weight and looks great. He said, he's thinner than he's been in 25 years.
It feels great. All his autoimmune issues were done.
I think a lot of what people are dealing with is inflammation.
That's caused by too much processed carbohydrates,
too much simple refined carbohydrate.
Fruits and sugars, and the inflammation leads to disease.
So if you look at what they call the five scourges of health, they are,
uh, obesity, cancer, cognitive decline, heart disease, and diabetes.
Those are all metabolic. Those are all things that we get through food.
And over half the people that are in hospital today right now in the United
States are in there for metabolic issues.
So that's crazy is crazy most so,
more than half of the people that are in the hospital are there because of what
they eat.
It is crazy.
And you see a direct correlation between the amount of refined sugars and
carbohydrates,
human beings have adjusted and started eating to the rise in diabetes and heart
disease and all these other issues. And you know, the,
one of the things we're talking about for the podcast is sorry.
I went running today. For some reason, I can't stop coughing.
People are dealing with a lot of
various health issues,
and they're always trying to pin like one cause of these
health issues.
And one of the real problems is when people develop these ideological answers
like veganism is one of them.
They do not want to think that there's anything healthy about meat and that what
they do is the only way. And this is the way. And like, I'm watching this,
there's a thread right now going on on Twitter between some cockamamie vegan
doctors, full of.
And all these people that are citing science and he is getting off and he's
showing his degree and photos of his degree. And they're like, look,
there's real science to the fact that dietary cholesterol is necessary.
It's it's the building blocks for cells. I mean, it literally is. It's the, the,
it's the reason why your body is converting it to,
to all the sex hormones, cholesterol, saturated, fat,
your body processes, that it's healthy for your brain.
It's healthy for your heart. All of these things are a fact.
He's not recognizing the fact that their issue is not saturated
fat. It's saturated fat in conjunction with all these other things.
And that's a problem with these studies.
Like one of the studies they did recently,
where they showed that people who ate meat more than five times a week were much
more likely to have heart disease,
but that's not a good study because they didn't say,
what are they eating the meat with?
What are you eating the meat?
Are you eating it with bread? Are you eating it in a, in a, in a, as a burger?
Are you drinking a soda with it? Right? Like this is not a good study.
A good study would be, have someone, you know, get a large group of people,
put them on a carnivore diet, have a large group of people,
put them on a keto diet,
have a large group of people put on a standard American diet,
let them eat burgers and fries and chocolate shakes and sodas. And let's, let's,
let's find out what the it is. Put people on a vegan diet.
I have had tons of friends, including Sam Harris,
who was on a vegan diet and his blood sugar was off the charts. He had to try.
It was trying to figure out how to stay healthy. Like he tried,
he tried it for a long time, but he felt like. And then he went,
switched to fish and he felt like, just doing that too.
And then he went back to me now he's healthy.
The answer,
the answer always seems to come back to being in the middle of somewhere. Right?
Like we veer off so far and we're like, oh man,
we got to retos and we got cookies.
And we got all this stuff being thrown at us every single day and it's
convenient. And then somebody will say, okay,
you don't know more carbs and you just go the complete opposite route and you
end up with something like a carnivore diet.
But I think just if you're just sit there and think about stuff logically,
it would make sense to me that you can overdo it on me.
Like I think you can overdo it on just about.
On anything. Yeah. I,
that's why I lean towards balance and that's why I like vegetables,
but I can't talk.
Yeah. I think your balance is probably is probably ideal, but, uh, you know,
the balance of the average,
American's not great because I think they think they can just grab and reach for
anything. That's their level of.
Well, I think the average American is just trying to feed themselves, you know,
they're just trying to they're and they're tired and look,
there's a great Tom Henry Thoreau quote that most men live
lives of quiet desperation.
And I think that applies to so many different things. And one of them is work.
Most people are working all day and they're sad and they feel like.
And when you get out of there, you're like Wendy's drive through comma,
baby hit me up with one of them, double cheeseburgers, chocolate shake, please.
They get a little reward and you know, and then they feel even more.
And then they crash and they get up and they do it all over again with a egg
McMuffin and a cup of coffee with three scoops of sugar in it. And this is the,
this is the rollercoaster that most people are on. Right.
And it all started with them going to bed too late.
Cause they stayed around the around on their phone or watch TV.
I went to bed too late. They woke up later than they wanted.
They're tired because they didn't get the sleep they were supposed to get,
they drank the coffee. Right. And it's just, it's this one thing snowballing.
Yeah.
After another now what are you guys doing in this documentary?
Like what are you trying to document, or.
We're basically just going around interviewing people, uh,
that are sort of in the know, you know,
that are writing these books like mark Sisson and Robb Wolf.
Those are some of the people that we interviewed and just asking them, you know,
basic questions about diet and nutrition and sort of seeing what, uh,
where they stand. And then, um, we're we sorta,
we shot about 15 interviews right now and then it's my job to sort of figure out
like, well, how does this all correlate together? How, you know? So we,
we don't really have, uh,
I'd say it'd be disingenuous for me to come on and say,
this is exactly what we're going to do because I have no idea what it's going to
be. And I think that's the beauty of it when we shot bigger, stronger, faster,
I had no clue how that was going to turn out.
And I think a lot of documentary filmmakers, they go in with like,
here's the point I'm going to prove, right.
Let me find all the people and string them along and then figure out how they
fit into the puzzle. And if they don't conveniently fit into my puzzle,
they're out. And I just, I don't know. I,
I developed a different way of doing it.
I just like to try to get as much information as I can and,
and think about it a lot and then put it in a way that makes sense to me. Okay.
So you're basically doing the opposite of a lot of these propaganda films.
Like this is one of the problems that I know a lot of people that have had heart
disease or all these various issues.
They've paid attention to some of these propaganda films.
So there's a couple of vegan ones that are out there right now.
What the health that's been widely dismissed by
scientists.
And I would love to interview him or any of the doctors that are involved in
that because you know, why not let them see, let them,
let them speak their mind and let's hear what they have to say,
and then let's talk about it. You know? And, and I think that's,
that's another interesting thing because the other thing I also feel is like the
guy that made what the health, uh, I just feel like he has good intentions also.
Yes. Right? I mean, he's not trying to like kill people, kill people.
He's trying to help people just like I'm trying to help people.
So he's over here going like this guy is trying to help people eat and meet.
He's crazy. The problem is I'm not doing that to him.
I think like there is a lot of benefits to a vegan diet.
There are a lot of people that could benefit from it.
Can everybody benefit from it? I don't know.
There's a lot of things missing also. So I, I definitely question it,
but I don't all over it.
I don't think that's the way to help people that way to help people as a,
sort of bring them together and figure.
I think it's very rare that people do it right. And I think if you do it right,
and you have, uh, you know, some sort of B12 supplements, whether it is, uh,
you know, from, um, like, uh, greens, like, um, what do they use? Uh,
the what's that.
Algae, the algae stuff there. Dominic D'Agostino. Yeah.
Yeah. There's a lot of that stuff that you can,
you can get your B vitamins from and, and if they're not opposed, I mean, well,
some of the simplest organisms on the planet are mollusks, you know,
and I know that people think of them as animal life,
but they're more primitive than plants. I mean, there's,
there's certain clams and mollusks and things like they don't, they don't feel.
They're not suffering. They, they literally don't have the capacity for pain.
And they're one of the more primitive life forms on earth. I mean,
we deviated from them 600 million years ago or something like that.
They're barely an animal. We can call them an animal. There are some,
but see what we say is because they move, you know,
because the clam closes its mouth.
We've decided that that's a living thing let's move.
To. I mean, do you have the plant that eats the rats?
That thing's awesome man or Venus Flytraps when the thing is,
plants are far more complex in their ability to communicate and their ability to
even express predation pain and protect themselves through various
chemical, uh, means to protect themselves from predation.
They change the way they taste to keep from getting eaten.
And there's been studies also that you just play the sound of a caterpillar
eating leaves next to plants.
They recognize that sound and they change their taste profile,
which is just fine.
And those are,
those are chemicals like lectins things like lectins and stuff that, um,
it can be very damaging to people. A lot of people don't know, but if he,
you know, cucumbers and tomatoes and stuff like that,
you're getting a lot of these lectins that a lot of people are,
they have adverse reactions to. So a lot of people will be eating, you know,
a variety of vegetables in our diet and not understand why they still don't feel
good. Uh, they need to look into that. They might have a lectin issue, you know.
It's, it's entirely possible.
So let me start this film, you know, we were gonna call it the war on cars.
That's what we were, that's what we were talking about. And that's,
that's what we've, uh, been talking about for quite a long time.
But as we started to go through the movie, we're like, oh,
I don't know war on carbs.
Like maybe that's going to isolate and that's going to, uh,
pigeonhole the movie into one style.
But as we started interviewing more and more people,
we realized that the problem is carbs. It's.
From a war on refined carbs and vegetable oils and sugars, you know,
sugar, which is.
When you say cars, we're talking about pizza,
basically an ice cream and all the, all the excess things that people are using.
We're not really talking.
Spoils, refined.
Carbohydrates, refined sugars. And these are all product of the modern world,
modern industrialized world call it Western. They call the, uh,
diseases,
Western diseases because they didn't used to have these diseases
on another level in other countries. And then when we started exporting,
you know, molasses, and we started exporting rice and everything else,
we were exporting, um, to these other countries that didn't have it.
They all got sick, they all started getting sick. You know,
they all start at their obesity rates, went up,
their diabetes rates went up and that's,
that's just proof right there that if you eat that stuff, you know,
it will have those consequences.
Well, one of the, one of the great ways, uh, um, I've seen someone talk about,
I forget who it was, it was discussing this. They were saying, look at humans,
teeth, people did not suffer from the type of tooth decay they suffer from now.
What is that from? What's from refined carbohydrates and sugar.
That's what it is. And especially sugary drinks,
like people were constantly drinking soda. I mean,
you are just torturing your teeth.
You're just throwing an acid on your teeth all day.
Yeah. I can't believe I used to eat all that stuff. When I looked back,
you know, I don't man. I used to eat all that and look forward to it too. Right.
And I, I guess I thought I felt okay, but I really didn't, you know,
like thinking back on it, I'm like, I feel way better now.
But back then I thought I was okay. I thought I was doing a good job.